Move right on this line one character at a time, then move left.
Move down several lines, one line at a time, then back up to this line.
Add some text after here on this line.
  Add some text before the 'A' of 'Add' from anywhere on the line.
  Add some text at the start of the line from anywhere on the line.
Add some text starting from where the last insert ended.
Put the cursor on 'o' and replace it with an x.
Put the cursor on 'o' and delete it.
Put the cursor after 'o' and delete it.
Add text at the end of this line.
Display the file status and % through file.
Undo the previous edit.
Redo the previous edit.

    Move to the end of this line, then the beginning, then to the first non-space
Move-a-word-at-a-time, forward, then back, then move a WORD at a time.
Move-to-the-end-a word at a time forward, then back, then a WORD at a time.
Overwrite everything after 'this' on this line.
Move to this 'q', then back to 'i'.
Move right before this 'q', then after the 'i'.
Delete 'this' word. Then del back to the start of the line. Then del fwd to the second '.'
Undo the all edits on the previous line with one command.
Delete up to the 'q'. Then delete to the end of the line (1 keystroke, not stored in delete reg).
Delete 'this', 'that', 'another'  words up to the 'w' of 'word'.
Change 'this' word to 'tmp'.  Then change the end of the line to something else (1 keystroke).
Change from 'here' to the end by repeating the last command.
Delete this whole line.
Change this whole line (one keystroke, not C).
Move to here. Delete to the end of the line.
Select up to 'this' and delete it.
Select the last 2 lines and delete them.
Select the first character of the last 5 lines and delete them.
Swap thsee two letters
Delete this paragraph

Copy to-the-end-of-this (including the space) and paste it on the next line, by itself.(1 command,no motion)
Copy this word.  paste in on the previous line, by itself (1 command,no motion)
Copy to-the-end-of-this (not including the space) and paste it on the next line.
Copy this whole line (with one keystroke) and paste it to the previous line.
Copy this line and then the previous line and paste this line above and the previous line below using different registers
Delete this line
Delete this line too
Copy the last deleted line into the system clipboard
Paste the first deleted line above this line
Paste the second deleted line below this line
Paste the last copied line above this line
Copy this line to the system clipboard.
List the contents of all registers
Paste the last inserted text
Paste the file name
Paste the alternate file name
Enter insert mode and paste the last yanked item
Paste from register 1, then paste then next 5 registers using one keystroke each
Paste from the register 1 then paste each subsequent register in its place using 2 keystrokes each
delete this line into a named register
 then delete this line appending it to the previous line
paste the combined line

Use the expression register to enter the result of 2+2
Use the expression register to enter the results of ls
Use a command line special to display the results of ls
Use a command line special to enter the results of ls on the line below the cursor

Insert a new line after this line.
Insert a new line before this line.

Search for 'jump list' in this file, then the next occurence, then the previous
Search backwards for 'previous', then the previous, then the next
Substitute preceding for previous without typing previous
Repeat the previous substitution (1 key, no enter)
Use a case insensitive search, just for this search, and search for 'Jump' in this file
Turn on case insensitive search
Turn on search highlighting
Turn on incremental seach an search for jump list
Turn off the highlighted text for the last search only; n/N should still work
Turn off case insensitive, highlighting, and incremental search
Search forward for the identifier in quotes 'tmp'
Search backward for the identifier in quotes 'this'
Search for "Search" at the start of a line only
Search for "only" at the end of a line
Search for words that end in "or"
Search for words that start with "in"
Search for "on" as a whole word only.
Search for "or" not as a while word.

Turn off/on line numbers
Turn off/on relative line numbers
Turn off/on mode indication in status line
Turn off/on cursor position in status line
Change the distance of the cursor from the top/bottom of the screen when scrolling starts.
Show all the startup scripts that ran for this instance of vim

Set a bookmark here, move to the start of the file and jump back to the bookmark
Jump back to the start of the line of the previous bookmark
Set a global book mark here.  Open a new file and jump back to this bookmark
Print the list of book marks
Edit the alternate file, then jump back here with a jump command
Repeat the last executed command using 2 keystrokes, then come back here
Open a new file in this window
Load a new file into a buffer
List all the loaded buffers
Switch to a buffer by buffer number
Switch to the previous buffer
Switch to the next buffer
Switch to a buffer by name (tab complete)
Close a buffer that is not this one
Switch to the first buffer in the list


Jump back to the last modification, then jump back here,using jump list cmds.
Print the jump list
Print the change list
Go back two items in jump list, then back here.
Go back two items in the change list, then back here.

Record a (macro) to (convert) the first (set) of parens to {}.  Then run it to fix the others.
Now change the macro to add a ';' after the closing } and run it (on) this line.
Now change the macro to convert to [] instead of {} and (run) it on this line.

Jump to the matching [ where ever it is.
Jump to the end ] of the file. Then back here using a bookmark.
Jump to the top, middle, and bottom of the screen.
lookup man page for 'ls' command.
Move to the end of this sentence.  Then move to the begining.
Move to the start of this paragrapha (empty line).  Then move to the end (empty line).

Move to the open { of func1 then func2 then func1
func 1
{

}

func 2
{

}

  Move to the first non-blank on the next line using 1 key.  
    Move to the first non-blank on the previous line, using 1 key.  
Remove the newline at the end of this line 
to make one line.
Remove the newline on the last 3 lines.

Delete 'x' the x and enter insert mode
Delete this line and enter insert mode with one key
Delete onlythisnotthis and enter insert mode using 2 keys

Scroll up one line at a time, keeping the cursor on this line
Scroll down one line at a time, keeping the cursor on this line
Scroll this line to the top of the window, keeping the cursor on this line
Scroll this line to the middle of the window, keeping the cursor on this line
Scroll this line to the bottom of the window, keeping the cursor on this line
Scroll up half a page, moving the cursor
Scroll down half a page, moving the cursor
Move up a full page, moving the cursor
Move down a full page, moving the cursor

||Indent this line.
Indent the last 3 lines
      Unindent this line.

Toggle the case of tHIS whole word
Toggle This Whole Line To Lower Case
Toggle This Whole Line To Upper Case
Use visual select to upper case 'This'
Use visual select to lower case 'tHIS'
Invert The Case of This Whole Line

Move to the 5th character of this line, then move to the 15th.

Reformat the below code

void    test
  { 
  print ("hello");
  }    
    
    { Reformat just this line.
   
put the cursor on the 'r' of 'word'. delete the whole word with one command
put the cursor on the 'r' of 'word'. delete the word and quotes with command
from the start of the line, delete 'word' without using /
a (select [ inside { the "quotes" then} each ] of the ) others
b (select [ outside { the "quotes" then} each ] of the ) others
<head>change the text inside the tag from anywhere on this line</head>
Use visual select to select "to select" on this line.  Extend the selection to the right, then to the left.
Use visual block mode to select a block in the middle of this text. Extend the selection from all four corners of the selection.
Use visual select to insert a # at the start of every selected line
Use visual select to insert a ; at the end of every selected line
Use visual block mode to insert a + at the start of selection on each line

Go to the next line is this very long line that will ultimately wrap at least once and normal move cammands will move you to the line after it then go back to the top line
Move the cursor to the horizontal middle of the screen on this line, then move it to the end of this line but before the wrap, then move it to this line, then the beginning of this line.
Use f to find the next.  Then without using a number, find the last.  Yes, this one. Now go to the previous period with one key

Replace all uses of 'all' with 'most' all over this line.
Replace all uses of 'most' over this line and the last, confirming each one
Replace all uses of visual in the file with optical, confirming each one

Execute 'ls' as a shell command.
Save the last 5 lines to another file
Insert the contents of the saved file below this line
Insert the results of 'ls' below this line

Split the window horizontally keeping this file in both splits
Split the window vertically loading a file in the new split
Split the window horizontally, loading a new file
Split that window vertically, opening another new file
Move focus between all three by cycling between them
Move focus between all three by moving
Make the original window bigger by 3 lines
Make the vertical window smaller by 2 columns
Maximize a window height
Maximize a window width
Reset to equal sized windows
Close one of the windows
Close all windows but this one

Print the current value of 'path' variable
Open a file in the path in this window, then return to this buffer
Open a file in the path in a new tab
Open a new file in a new tab
Open this buffer in a new tab
Display a list of the tabs
Switch to the next tab, close it
Switch to the previous tab, then to the first tab
From this tab, close the next tab
Close all tabs except this one
Open all buffers in their own tabs
Open a new help window in its own tab

change the fold method to indent
  fold the next few lines
  then unfold them
  toggle the fold a couple times
    open only these folds 
    close these folds and the one above this

open and close the next fold and the ones above
  close all folds in the file then open them 
  close one level of fold in the file then another, then open 1 level

 execute the 2nd to last command without using arrow keys
move forward and back in command history without arrow keys
edit a command without using arrow keys
open the search history window
exit history window

set a terminal buffer to normal mode

display the options enabled in this build of vim.
open a shell and determine if the shell is running as a subprocess of vim or not

indent this line through the end of the file

remake the tags for the project
build the project
open the compiler output window
display the command that will execute when building
open main.cpp in the project without specifying path to file
jump to a tag, then another tag, then back to starting point
open a header file that the cursor is on
open a header file in a new split 
open a header file in a new vert split(a couple commands) 
open a header file in a new tab
use tab completion to complete a name in the file
display completion default options
use tab completion to complete a filename
use tab completion to complete a tag
navigate in completion popup up and down
toggle the compiler output window (only if errors exist)
list the errors
jump to an error by number
move forward and back along errors
close the compiler output window
open file browser

add three to the '5' on this line from the start of the line
subtract two from 7

enter insert mode and type some text. Delete the last character typed without using backspace.
still in insert mode Delete the last word.
still in insert mode delete to the start of line
repeat the last three line on a command mode command line (works in bash as well)

enter insert mode and then using insert normal mode shift the cursor to the middle of the window.
visual select a few lines and indent them. Then indent them again with one command.
Then reselect the same region with one command

using command mode, print the first two lines of the file
using command mode, print the last line of the file
using command mode, print the last visual selection
using command mode, print the current line
using command mode, print the line that mark 'a' is on
using command mode, print the whole file
using command mode, copy the line 2 lines below the current line to 1 above the current line
using command mode, move this line to the end of the file


to add
--------
gdb commands
g* g# gd gD
:set nowrapscan
reg expressions . (escape w/ \)
``
`"
`[
`]
:wall
reg expressions
sessions
:buffdo e
list all completions of a help topic (ctrl-D after :h num)
start/end of last change marks [ ] 
open filename under cursor ctrl_f/ctrl_F
preview window

spoilers
----------
  walk delete registers --   "1p u.
  :ver
  \(\<\)\@<!or\(\>\)\@<!
  \(\<or\>\)\@<!\&or
:set path?
visual block mode I and A work for each line of selection
q: to open command history
q/ to open search history
ctrl-f on command to open it in command history for editing
ctrl-w N to set terminal buffer to normal mode
two ways to exit history window :q and ctrl-c ctrl-c
display options built with :ve
completion ^x^n; ^x^f; ^x^]; ^n;
navigate completion list ^n ^p
navigating tags (ctrl-] ctrl-T :tags https://vim.fandom.com/wiki/Browsing_programs_with_tags)
(command history ctrl-f, ctrl-n, ctrl-p, q:, q/, q?)
navigate change list (g; g, '' `` `^ :changes gi)
:copen :cclose :cl :cc# :cn :cp
open file under cursor gf ctrl-w+f ctrl-w+gf
reselect visual selection - gv; repeat visual command .
edit command: ^w, û
command mode: 1,$,.,'m,'<,'>,%;.+1;:copy/:co/:t;:move/:m
